Banana is the name of the edible fruits of cultivated plants of the genus Banana (Musa); usually these include Musa acuminata and Musa × paradisiaca, as well as Musa balbisiana, Musa fehi, Musa troglodytarum and a number of others. The fruits of Ensete ventricosum (strictly speaking, a representative of another genus of the Banana family) can also be called bananas. From a botanical point of view, a banana is a berry, multi-seeded and thick-skinned. Cultivated forms often lack seeds, which are unnecessary for vegetative propagation. The fruits are 6-30 cm long and 2-5 cm in diameter. The infructescence can consist of 300 fruits and weigh up to 50-60 kg.

Bananas are one of the oldest food crops, and for tropical countries, they are the most important food plant and the main export item. Ripe bananas are widely consumed as food throughout the world, they are used in the preparation of a large number of dishes. In addition to eating fresh, in the cuisine of some people bananas can be fried or boiled both peeled and unpeeled. They are also dried, canned, used to make banana flour, marmalade, syrups, wines. Bananas are also used as livestock feed. The smell of bananas is determined by isovaleric-isoamyl and acetic-isoamyl esters. They are grown in tropical and subtropical regions with a hot, humid climate. There are many varieties of edible bananas.

The size, color and shape can vary significantly depending on the species or variety, but most often they have an oblong cylindrical or triangular shape, straightened or rounded. The length of the fruit varies from 3 to 40 cm, the thickness - from 2 to 8 cm. The color of the skin can be yellow, green, red or even silver. The pulp is white, cream, yellow or orange. When unripe, it is hard and sticky, but as it ripens, it becomes soft and juicy.

In many countries, bananas are a major source of food - for example, in Ecuador, the annual consumption of this product is 73.8 kg per person (for comparison, in Russia this figure is 7.29 kg). Bananas also make up a significant share of consumption in Burundi (189.4 kg), Samoa (85.0 kg), Comoros (77.8 kg) and the Philippines (40.6 kg).