Vegetables and fruits are a source of human health, youth and beauty. Plant products contain a huge amount of vitamins, minerals, fiber and other substances necessary for the proper functioning of the human body. Fruits and vegetables contain the ability to strengthen the human immune system, protect the body from various diseases. A big plus is the content of antioxidants in vegetables and fruits - substances that slow down the aging process of the body. Eating fruits and vegetables, the ability to store and cook them correctly provide a person with good health, energy and attractiveness. Sufficient consumption of vegetables and fruits has a beneficial effect on the entire body, improving the functioning of all metabolic processes, including metabolism, which allows you to feel better, be healthier, and your appearance will correspond to these positive changes. All this is explained by the content of such vitamins as carotene (provitamin A), vitamins C, K and P in vegetables and fruits, they also contain sucrose, fructose, pectin, fiber, starch, organic acids, mineral salts. Of no small importance is the antibacterial effect of the so-called phytoncides, which are found in large quantities in garlic, onions and citrus fruits. Their use during a cold helps suppress the effect of pathogenic bacteria on the body, as well as reduce the number of microbes in the oral cavity. Many types of vegetables are able to relieve the oppressive effect of fats on gastric secretion; in combination with fats, they also have a choleretic property. And, perhaps, the main fact indicating the benefits of vegetables and fruits is their ability to protect the body's cells from disease and aging, due to the content of antioxidants in them: beta-carotene (a form of vitamin A) and vitamin C. The benefits of vegetables and fruits can be judged by their color. Thus, yellow fruits are rich in carotenoids, which strengthen the human cardiovascular system. Such fruits include yellow apples, apricots, peaches, melons, bananas, pineapples, cauliflower, corn. Orange vegetables and fruits contain beta-carotene, which is a strong antioxidant and has anti-cancer properties. These are carrots, mango, pumpkin, sea buckthorn, etc. The red color indicates the presence of flavonoids in vegetables and fruits, which protect the body from the effects of free radicals, allowing a person to stay young and attractive longer. Red fruits also help relieve inflammation of the urinary tract and reduce the risk of cancer. Red vegetables, fruits, and berries are red apples, watermelons, cherries, pomegranates, strawberries, raspberries, cranberries, tomatoes, beets, etc.
Green vegetables and fruits contain chlorophyll, magnesium, potassium, and calcium, which improve digestion, strengthen nerves, etc. Such vegetables and fruits are also rich in vitamins A, B, C. Some apples, kiwi, avocado, cucumbers, cabbage, peas, spinach, celery, lettuce, etc. have a green color. Lilac-colored fruits - blueberries, blackberries, grapes, plums, eggplants - are also sources of antioxidants that slow down the aging process and have an antimicrobial effect.
Vegetables supply the human body not only with vitamins, but also with minerals such as iron, magnesium, phosphorus, calcium, potassium, etc. Moreover, vegetables and fruits contain organic acids and essential oils. These substances improve the digestion process, prepare the body for heavier food, and promote better absorption of fish and meat.
Another positive quality of vegetables and fruits is their low calorie content. Due to this quality, vegetables and fruits are an integral part of diets and therapeutic nutrition for people suffering from excess weight.
In order for vegetables and fruits to retain more vitamins, you need to know how to store and cook them properly. Most of the nutrients are found in fresh and frozen vegetables. You should not eat vegetables and fruits that have become soft and wrinkled.
Heat treatment and sugar have a negative effect on vegetables and fruits. Vegetables almost completely lose vitamins during boiling and cooking under pressure. For example, boiled cabbage, as well as boiled or fried zucchini, bring almost no benefit to the human body. Carrots, beets, garlic, green peas and celery experience much less harm during heat treatment. The best way to cook vegetables is considered to be cooking in a microwave oven with the addition of a minimum amount of liquid, as well as steaming and frying on a grill or flat metal surface without adding oil.
To preserve the greatest number of nutrients, it is recommended to wash, peel and cut vegetables immediately before the cooking process. Any greens should be added to dishes before serving food on the table.
In order for the consumption of fruits and root vegetables to have a beneficial effect on the human body.